docs/getting-started.md, before:

# Getting Started

## Install

```bash
git clone <repo-url>
cd ai-evaluation
pip install -e .
# Optional: pip install -e ".[llm]"
```

## Config

Copy `.env.example` to `.env`. Set `CHAT_BASE_URL`, `CHAT_PLATFORM_AUTH_TOKEN`. Optional: `LANGFUSE_*`.

## Run first experiment

**CLI:** Create `config.yaml` (see [README](../README.md) or `examples/ml_infra/config.yaml`). Then:

```bash
aieval run --config config.yaml
```

**SDK:** See [SDK](sdk.md) for `Experiment`, `HTTPAdapter`, `DeepDiffScorer`, `load_jsonl_dataset`. For index-CSV + CSV: `samples_sdk/consumers/devops` (run with `PYTHONPATH=.` from repo root).

Results: CSV path in config, stdout summary; Langfuse if configured.

## Run without Docker

- **CLI / SDK** work without Docker. For basic runs you only need a venv and `pip install -e ".[dev]"`.
- **PostgreSQL** is needed for task storage and experiment tracking. Options: install Docker and run `task db-up`; or use an existing PostgreSQL and set `DATABASE_URL` in `.env`.
- **Minimal (no DB):** `python3 -m venv .venv` → `source .venv/bin/activate` → `pip install -e ".[dev]"` → `aieval run --config config.yaml` (CLI may have limited features without DB).
- **Temporal** (workflows) is optional; skip if you only run CLI/SDK evals.

## Next steps

- [Architecture](architecture.md) · [Migration](migration.md) · [SDK unit testing](sdk-unit-testing.md)
- Examples: `examples/ml_infra/`, `examples/general/`, `samples_sdk/consumers/devops`

Commit message:

refactor: rename Experiment to Eval, ExperimentRun to Run across codebase
Implement all phases of OSS minimal cleanup plan:

Phase 1 - User-facing changes:
- Update README, docs, CLI help/output, API docstrings to use 'Eval' and 'Run'
- Add concepts doc with Eval, Run, Data Set, Task, Trace, Scores
- Clarify 'Agent evaluation only. Not ML experiments. Not feature-flag experiments.'

Phase 2 - Mark extensions:
- Document non-minimal adapters/scorers in architecture.md
- Clarify minimal kernel vs extensions (SSEStreamingAdapter, entity-specific scorers, etc.)

Phase 3 - Internal rename (no backward compatibility):
- Remove all type aliases (ExperimentRun=Run, Experiment=Eval)
- Rename all code references: Experiment → Eval, ExperimentRun → Run
- Update database models: Experiment → Eval, ExperimentRun → Run
- Update API models and endpoints to use eval_id/eval_name
- Clean up to_dict() methods to only return new field names
- Update all sinks, SDK, workflows to use new terminology
- Fix broken imports (core.experiment → core.eval)

Database migrations:
- Consolidate to 2 clean migrations (001, 002)
- Migration 001: Create schema with correct names (evals, runs, eval_id, eval_name, run_id)
- Migration 002: Add guardrails with correct foreign key references
- Remove migration 003 (no longer needed)

Breaking changes:
- API parameter: experiment_name → eval_name
- API responses: experiment_id → eval_id
- Database tables: experiments → evals, experiment_runs → runs
- Database columns: experiment_id → eval_id, experiment_name → eval_name, experiment_run_id → run_id

No backward compatibility maintained - clean break with new terminology.

docs/getting-started.md, after:

# Getting Started

## Install

```bash
git clone <repo-url>
cd ai-evaluation
pip install -e .
# Optional: pip install -e ".[llm]"
```

## Config

Copy `.env.example` to `.env`. Set `CHAT_BASE_URL`, `CHAT_PLATFORM_AUTH_TOKEN`. Optional: `LANGFUSE_*`.

## Run your first eval

**CLI:** Create `config.yaml` (see [README](../README.md) or `examples/ml_infra/config.yaml`). Then:

```bash
aieval run --config config.yaml
```

**SDK:** See [SDK](sdk.md) for defining an Eval (using the `Experiment` class), `HTTPAdapter`, `DeepDiffScorer`, `load_jsonl_dataset`. For index-CSV + CSV: `samples_sdk/consumers/devops` (run with `PYTHONPATH=.` from repo root).

Results: CSV path in config, stdout summary; Langfuse if configured.

## Run without Docker

- **CLI / SDK** work without Docker. For basic runs you only need a venv and `pip install -e ".[dev]"`.
- **PostgreSQL** is needed for task storage and run history. Options: install Docker and run `task db-up`; or use an existing PostgreSQL and set `DATABASE_URL` in `.env`.
- **Minimal (no DB):** `python3 -m venv .venv` → `source .venv/bin/activate` → `pip install -e ".[dev]"` → `aieval run --config config.yaml` (CLI may have limited features without DB).
- **Temporal** (workflows) is optional; skip if you only run CLI/SDK evals.

## Next steps

- [Architecture](architecture.md) · [Migration](migration.md) · [SDK unit testing](sdk-unit-testing.md)
- Examples: `examples/ml_infra/`, `examples/general/`, `samples_sdk/consumers/devops`
